welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
the butterfly effect
growing up evan treborn and his friends
lenny and kaylee and sibling tommy
miller suffered many severe
psychological traumas that frequently
caused evan to blackout
these traumas include being coerced to
take part in child pornography by kaylee
and tommy's father
george miller eric stoltz being nearly
strangled to death by his
institutionalized father
jason traborne callum keith rennie who
was then killed in front of him by
guards
accidentally killing a mother and her
infant daughter while playing with
dynamite with his friends
and seeing his dog burned alive by tommy
seven years later while entertaining a
girl in his dorm room
evan discovers that when he reads from
his adolescent journals
he can travel back in time and redo
parts of his past
his time traveling episodes account for
the frequent blackouts he experienced as
a child since those are the moments that
his adult self occupied his
consciousness
such as the moment his father strangled
him when he realized
that evan shared his time traveling
affliction
however there are consequences to his
revised choices that dramatically alter
his present life
for example his timeline leads to
alternative futures in which he finds
himself
variously as a college student in a
fraternity
an inmate in prison for murdering tommy
and a quadruple amputee
eventually he realizes that even though
his intentions to fix the past are good
his actions have unforeseen consequences
in which either he or at least one of
his friends suffers horribly
moreover the assimilation of dozens of
years worth of new memories from the
alternative timelines
causes him brain damage and severe
nosebleeds
he ultimately reaches the conclusion
that he and his friends will never have
good futures as long as he keeps
altering the past
and he realizes that he is hurting them
rather than helping
evan travels back one final time to the
day he first met kaylee as a child
he intentionally upsets her so that she
and tommy will choose to live with their
mother
in a different neighborhood instead of
with their father when they divorce
as a result they are not subjected to a
destructive upbringing
do not grow up with evan and go on to
have happy
successful lives evan awakens in a
college dorm room
where lenny is his roommate as a test
he asks where kaylee is to which lenny
responds
who's kaylee knowing that everything is
all right this time
evan burns his journals and videos to
avoid altering the timeline ever again
eight years later in new york city evan
exits an office building and passes by
kaylee on the street
though a brief look of recognition
passes over both of their faces
they both decide to keep walking thank
you all for watching
don't forget to subscribe and hit the
bell notification for more of these
videos
[Music]